there's a lot of things I wish I knew
about flexibility training before I
started it took me roughly two years of
inconsistent training just to get to the
splits but if I knew what I know now it
wouldn't have taken nearly as long and I
would have had much more fun doing it so
here is the fastest possible way to gain
flexibility if you implement this you'll
see results much faster than you would
using any other method but first our
sponsor just kidding well I'm My Own
sponsor but let's see how long I can
hang from one hand it's a little hot but
oh well one of the biggest scams you see
in the supplement industry is
proprietary Blends which sounds like a
good thing but usually it's just an
excuse to underdose ingredients in flexi
joints we use the clinical dosage oh my
God it's very hot the clinical trial
dosage that they use in the studies oh
it hurts basically they've done studies
on the ingredients and we use the actual
doses that those studies use rather than
just some magic number man that hurt so
if your rusty hinges need a little bit
more try flexi joints where was I oh
yeah there are many ways of gaining
range of motion but not all of them are
fast or effective oh there are two main
categories of stretching there is static
and there is dynamic static means that
there is no movement and dynamic means
there is movement trying to kick your
foot above your head is a good example
of a dynamic stretch and holding that
same stretch but without moving is a
good example of a static stress as
simple as it sounds it gets a little bit
more complicated the words Dynamic and
static are just the first half of the
term there are also stretches like this
that are active stretches which means my
muscles are flexing as I'm stretching
and there are passive stretches like
this that requires my tricep to relax
while I stretch it it's really fun
because all you got to do is pretend
you're a toddler and smash the two words
together am I moving no so it's static
am I flexing no so it's passive static
passive am I moving yes am I flexing yes
so this is a dynamic active stretch also
known as a bicep curl I forgot to
mention that you don't have to stretch
to your maximum range for it to be
considered a stretch but the muscle is
lengthening so it is considered a
stretch which is kind of funny because
there are people out there dedicated to
telling you stretching is bad for you
you need to do end range strength
training instead when the reality is
it's all a form of stretching and there
is no good evidence that any of it is
bad for you at all so now that you know
what types of stretching they're even on
the fastest way to gain flexibility
according to this study is static stress
wait no according to this study it's
actually active stretch come on guys
latest research says PNF stretching is
actually the best
as you can see there is no real
consensus here and to top it all off the
study's done on the science of
flexibility a lot of times are Half
Baked and have way too many confounding
variables
basically they're not taking into
account how intense they're stretching
the age of the person stretching whether
or not the person goes to the gym on a
regular basis or is a Minecraft
speedrunner I was definitely the
Minecraft speedrunner that barely went
to the gym but anyway in my personal
experience passively stretching at a
very high intensity like this leads to
the fastest results by far and it's also
the most well-researched form of gaining
range of motion but if you don't want to
be a floppy lifeless flexi noodle you
should probably do some form of active
stretching whether it be dynamic active
or static active the reason I'm such a
firm believer in static passive
stretching is because if you're doing
any form of stretching correctly it's
going to make you very sore you just
cannot
for your muscles but lengthwise instead
of width-wise by the way newer research
is finding that you do get longitudinal
hypertrophy so it really is like
bodybuilding but for muscles lengthwise
anyways static passive stretching
typically makes you less sore on average
compared to the other forms of stretch
which allows you to keep stretching with
a high intensity day after day no other
form of stretching could do that quite
as effectively so if you're just
starting static passive stretching is
definitely the way to go as long as
you're stretching with a high intensity
but how do you know that you're
stretching intense enough
well everybody has a different level of
pain tolerance so it's hard to say
exactly where you should stop and how
much is too painful but it gets a little
bit more complicated than even that the
more you stretch in general the higher
your pain tolerance tends to get let me
say that again stretching increases your
pain tolerance stretching is insanely
cool I don't get why people think it's
bad for you so the more advanced you get
the further you'll be able to push
yourself with less pain over time but
don't push past your pain signals that's
where people get injured you've been
stretching for a month or two you're
starting to push further and further
you're feeling that pain but you push
yourself even further and oh
now you can't walk properly for six
months that's basically what happened to
me I attempted the middle splits I
didn't warm up and I push past my pain
signals and oops
wasn't good after a couple months of
rest this was me I wonder if I can still
do the splits
dang it it's back to work
so be aware of the risks the general
guideline is avoid outright pain but
still stay in a healthy amount of
discomfort okay so one two oh I'm gonna
be so flexible yeah intensity is
important but a two second stretch just
isn't going to cut it so how long should
you stretch
this study looked at 15 seconds 30
seconds and 60 seconds and the results
are surprising all durations were
effective at increasing range of motion
but 30 seconds outperformed both 15
seconds and 60 seconds by upwards of 10
so now you know 30 seconds is probably
the best place to start keep in mind
that the people in the study were not
gymnasts dancers or flexibility coaches
they were normal people so if you're
more advanced in flexibility don't count
out those longer stretching times
completely but there's no question about
it 30 seconds is effective per stretch
but if you haven't realized it yet
stretching is a workout and you need to
treat it as such you wouldn't want to go
to the gym and do one set of bicep curls
and then just leave the same principles
apply to stretching this review looked
at 23 studies and they found that five
minutes a week is the minimum effective
dose meaning the least amount that you
can do to gain flexibility you can
obviously do five minutes in one go but
we just learned that 30 seconds is more
effective than 60 seconds which means
it's also more effective than five plus
minutes so that five minutes per week
needs to be done in 30 second sets which
happens to be 10 sets a week which is
kind of funny because 10 sets a week
most experts agree it's optimal for
building muscle just goes to show we are
bodybuilding but for muscle length
instead of width let's say your goal is
to touch your toes all you have to do is
attempt to touch your toes for 30
seconds rest for 30 seconds and then
attempt for another 30 seconds and then
you're done if you do that five days a
week that's Monday to Friday you hit the
bare minimum which is 10 sets if you do
more it is going to be more effective
but 10 sets is the minimum and again if
you don't want to be a lifeless floppy
noodle make at least half of those
stretches active stretches where your
muscles are flexing I recommend picking
one to three flexibility skills to work
on at once because if you do more than
that you're biting off more than you can
chew besides once you get a skill it's
almost ridiculously easy to maintain it
compared to actually what it took to
gain recap regular stretching is the
best place to start hold stretches for
30 seconds at a time don't stretch into
pain and do 10 sets a week if you need
help finding the stretches how many
stretches to do how long what active
stretches what passive stretches to do I
have free ebooks on my website
stayflexi.co you can check those out and
I actually have full length courses
coming soon which will be linked when
they come out stay Flexi